
Manuscript Title: 
  
        Behaviour of the Serre Equations in the Presence of Steep Gradients Revisited

Authors:

        Jordan Pitt, Mathematical Sciences Institute, Australian National University (corresponding author)

        Christopher Zoppou, Mathematical Sciences Institute, Australian National University

        Stephen Roberts, Mathematical Sciences Institute, Australian National University


Objective/Problem:

        The main problem is that there are no known analytical solutions to the Serre equations for steep gradient problems, to deal with 
        this we use numerical methods to study a class of smooth approximations to the simplest steep gradient problem; the dam-break problem.

        

Approach:

        To demonstrate that our numerical solutions are good approximate solutions we use three tests. The first is whether our numerical solutions
        converge as the resolution is increased. The second is how well our numerical solutions conserve mass, momentum and energy. The third is that
        our numerical solutions are the same across different methods. Without analytical solutions are the best demonstration of the validity of our
        numerical solutions. 


Novel Contribution:

        1. We demonstrate that choice of the smoothing parameter effects the observed structure of the solution

        2. We demonstrate a new structure that has not been commonly observed in the literature for the Serre equations

        3. We also use our validated numerical solutions to test some comparisons and approximations made in the literature


Previously Published Papers:

        C. Zoppou, J. Pitt, S. Roberts, Numerical Solution of the Fully Non-Linear
        Weakly Dispersive Serre Equations for Steep Gradient Flows, Applied Mathe-
        matical Modelling 48 (2017) 70–95.

                The above paper contains all the methods we use in the paper I'm submitting, but in terms of overlap of experiments, 
                results or conclusions there are none. The paper under submission is really an application of the methods described in the
                above paper.
                
        
Closest Prior Article:

        D. Mitsotakis, D. Dutykh, J. Carter, On the nonlinear dynamics of the traveling-
        wave solutions of the Serre system, Wave Motion 70 (1) (2017) 166–182.

                The paper under submission expands upon the one smoothed dam-break problem they include in their paper, to
                investigate the effect of different smoothing parameters. The paper also demonstrates a structure of the solution not seen in
                the rest of the literature for these equations.


Experts:
        
